 what is Amazon Route 53:
    In technical terms. AWS Route 53 lets developers and organizations route end users to their web applications in a very reliable and cost-effective manner. It is a Domain Name System (DNS) that translates domain names into IP addresses to direct traffic to your website. In simple terms, it converts World Wide Web addresses like www.example.com to IP addresses like 10.20.30.40.

    Basically, domain queries are automatically routed to the nearest DNS server to provide the quickest response possible. If you use a web hosting company like GoDaddy, it takes 30 minutes to 24 hours to remap a domain to a different IP, but by using Route 53 in AWS it takes only a few minutes.

Amazon Route 53 is a highly available and scalable Domain Name System (DNS) web service. You can use Route 53 to perform three main functions in any combination: domain registration, DNS routing, and health checking.

DNS, or the Domain Name System:
    translates human readable domain names (for example, www.amazon.com) to machine readable IP addresses (for example, 192.0.2.44).

1. Register domain names
Your website needs a name, such as example.com. Route 53 lets you register a name for your website or web application, known as a domain name.

2. Route internet traffic to the resources for your domain
When a user opens a web browser and enters your domain name (example.com) or subdomain name (acme.example.com) in the address bar, Route 53 helps connect the browser with your website or web application.

3. Check the health of your resources
Route 53 sends automated requests over the internet to a resource, such as a web server, to verify that it's reachable, available, and functional. You also can choose to receive notifications when a resource becomes unavailable and choose to route internet traffic away from unhealthy resources.

How domain registration works:
    1. You choose a domain name and confirm that it's available, meaning that no one else has registered the domain name that you want.

      If the domain name you want is already in use, you can try other names or try changing only the top-level domain, such as .com, to another top-level domain, such as .ninja or .hockey. For a list of the top-level domains that Route 53 supports, see Domains that you can register with Amazon Route 53.

      You register the domain name with Route 53. When you register a domain, you provide names and contact information for the domain owner and other contacts.

      When you register a domain with Route 53, the service automatically makes itself the DNS service for the domain by doing the following:
        * Creates a hosted zone that has the same name as your domain
        * Assigns a set of four name servers to the hosted zone. When someone uses a browser to access your website, such as www.example.com, these name servers tell the browser where to find your resources, such as a web server
        * Gets the name servers from the hosted zone and adds them to the domain.

Nameserver: 
    This is a server on the internet specialized in handling queries regarding the location of a domain name’s various services. Nameservers are a fundamental part of the Domain Name System (DNS). They allow using domains instead of IP addresses.

Hosted Zone:
    Is a container for records, which include information about how to route traffic for a domain (such as example.com) and all of its subdomains (such as www.example.com, retail.example.com, and seattle.accounting.example.com).

    A public hosted zone describes how you want to route traffic for the domain in the public internet while a private hosted zone defines how you want to route traffic in a private AWS VPC.

    A private hosted zone only responds to queries coming from within the associated VPC and it is not used for hosting a website that need to be publicly accessed. The main use case of a private hosted zone is split-view DNS.

